---
layout: post
title: Pipe Functions
categories: Angular
---

Here we will talk about the common pipe function in Angular.

## switchMap()

When you call `switchMap`, the pipeline will not continue until that pipeline finishes. For example, `tap` and `map` will not wait, and will keep going down the current pipe since its asynchrnous.

The function being used in the `switchMap`, MUST return an Observable.

```js
getExpertise() {
    return this.expertise.getExpertise().pipe(
      tap(x => (this.allExpertise = x)),
    );
  }
```

Notice here, that there is **no subscription**, that is to be handles in the parent pipe.

Here we have the child function being called in the parent function:

```js
this.service
  .edit(data) // parent
  .pipe(
    switchMap(() => this.getExpertise()), // child
    tap(() => (this.parentAdded = true))
  )
  .subscribe();
```

The subscribe here is used for both pipes.

## zip()

This takes as many Observables as you want, and runs them back to back, without waiting on any of the calls to be resolved.

```js
this.input.valueChanges
    .pipe(
       switchMap(() => zip(this.firstCall(), this.secondCall())),
       tap(() => (this.pending = false)),
    )
.subscribe(),
```

With this, the calls run simultaneously, so you must be sure that the second call doesn't depend on the first call's response.

## filter()

You can stop a pipe by using filter:

```js
this.input.valueChanges
  .pipe(
    filter(x => x.isActive),
    tap(() => this.get())
  )
  .subscribe();
```

If the filter does not return as `true`, the pipe does not continue. Just be sure that there isn't anything else in the pipeline that you want to run, since you can't re-start the pipe after the filter return `false`.

## debounceTime()

You can tell the pipe to wait for a designated amount of time before continuing.

```js
this.input.valueChanges
  .pipe(
    debounceTime(600),
    tap(x => (this.input = x)),
    switchMap(x => this.search(x))
  )
  .subscribe();
```

## distinctUntilChanged()

This will only continue the pipe if there has been a change. For example, if someone types in a letter, and then immediately deletes it, that is not a change, so it won't run the pipeline again.

```js
this.input.valueChanges
  .pipe(
    debounceTime(600),
    distinctUntilChanged(),
    tap(x => (this.searchInput = x)),
    switchMap(x => this.search(x))
  )
  .subscribe();
```

Its important to note the order in which I have `debounceTime` and `distinctUntilChanged`; if `distinctUntilChanged` is first, it will always be distinct, and therefore not function as you wanted.

## catchError()

If there is an error in the pipeline, it will jump down to catchError and run that code only.

```js
this.service
  .addOwner(this.id)
  .pipe(
    switchMap(() => this.getOwners(this.id)),
    catchError(err => {
      this.snackbar.AddError(err.error.payload);
      throw err;
    })
  )
  .subscribe();
```

Here, you can see that if the function `.addOwner()` fails, the snackbar popup will be displayed on the screen.
